The template data is an object available inside a theme's template file (written using Handlebars) which contains all the configuration and the rendered content for each page. Using this data, the theme's `index.hbs` decides where the content would show up and how the final HTML will look based on the configuration values.

But, before we cover the template API, let's take a look at how Fluorite generates the documentation:
  1. `flconfig.json` is loaded and all content is read
  2. Both the markdown and the JSON content are rendered into HTML
  3. A template data object is created based on the configuration (content versioning, multipage, etc.)
  4. The docs are generated by running each page's template data (of each version) through the theme's `index.hbs`

With that in mind, let's look at the data that is available to the `index.hbs` for rendering the final HTML.

> The template data you get in `index.hbs` is generated specifically for each page, which means the job of `index.hbs` is to only render the HTML for that specific page. Repeating this for each page of each version (handled by Fluorite) results in the final HTML.

> Make sure you're familiar with the [output directory]({{versionRootPrefix}}/project-structure#project-structure-output-directory) and the [theme config]({{versionRootPrefix}}/themes/creating-a-new-theme/theme-configuration) which helps you to define theme-specific configuration and declare theme assets which affect the final output structure.

The template data of each page has the following properties available to the Handlebars template file:

  - **title**: The title of the documentation.
  - **pageTitle**: The current page's title.
  - **themeFlavor**: The selected theme flavor.
  - **multiPage**: A boolean indicating if documentation is being generated in multipage mode.
  - **version**: The version of the current page being rendered.
  - **versions**: An array of version objects. This array tells the template what versions the whole documentation has.
    - **version**: The version number.
    - **link**: A relative link from the current page to this version (either the root document or the same document in that version based on `rendererOptions.rootVersionLinksOnly`.)
  - **path**: The section path of the current page. Section paths are index numbers of the sections array with `/` for sub sections. For example, if the page belongs to `Sub 1` section of `Section 1` and `Section 1` has the index `0`, then the section path would be `0/0`.
  - **sections**: An array containing section objects. This array could be used to render the documentation index.
    - **title**: The section title.
    - **link**: A relative link to the section from the current page.
    - **level**: The indentation level of the section.
    - **path**: The section path.
    - **selected**: A boolean indicating if the current page belongs to this section.
  - **rootPrefix**: A path prefix to be inserted at the beginning of all links referring to the documentation root.
  - **versionRootPrefix**: A path prefix to be inserted at the beginning of all links referring to the root of the current version.
  - **contents**: An array of section content objects.
    - **title**: The title of the current section.
    - **id**: The id of the section title (used for anchors.)
    - **content**: An array of content objects.
      - **type**: Either `doc` or `api` specifying the content type (markdown or API respectively.)
      - **value**: The rendered HTML content (string) if `type` is `doc` or an object with the following properties if `type` is `api`:
        - **raw**: A copy of the input JSON file (API documentation file). Since most values are already rendered (as tables, code blocks, etc.), the `raw` property can be used to render any parts differently inside the template. Keep in mind that a body `model` would be provided with string or JSON content where the `externalFile` was used (and the `externalFile` property would be deleted). Also, body property of request and response examples is wrapped as a single-element array.
        - **info**: Namespace.
          - **title**: Title of the API (used for headers).
          - **id**: The id of the API title (used for headers).
          - **content**: The rendered description.
        - **auth**: Namespace.
          - **enabled**: Boolean indicating if authentication is enabled.
          - **title**: Authentication title (used for headers).
          - **id**: The id of the authentication title (used for headers).
          - **content**: The rendered authentication description.
        - **path**:
          - **title**: Path title (used for headers).
          - **id**: The id of the path title (used for headers).
          - **method**: The path method.
          - **content**: The path content.
        - **params**: Namespace.
          - **title**: Parameters title (used for headers).
          - **id**: The id of the parameters title (used for headers).
          - **content**: The parameters content.
        - **queries**: Namespace.
          - **title**: The query parameters title (used for headers).
          - **id**: The id of the query parameters title (used for headers).
          - **content**: The query parameters content.
        - **request**: Namespace.
          - **headers**: Namespace.
            - **title**: The request headers title (used for headers).
            - **id**: The id of the request headers title (used for headers).
            - **content**: The headers rendered content.
          - **cookies**: Namespace.
            - **title**: The request cookies title (used for headers).
            - **id**: The id of the request cookies title (used for headers).
            - **content**: The cookies rendered content.
          - **body**: Namespace.
            - **title**: The request body title (used for headers).
            - **id**: The id of the request body title (used for headers).
            - **content**: An array of body objects.
              - **type**: The body type.
              - **value**: The rendered body value.
        - **response**: Same as `request`.
        - **examples**: An array of example objects.
          - **title**: The examples title (used for headers).
          - **id**: The id of the examples title (used for headers).
          - **path**: Namespace.
            - **title**: The path title (used for headers).
            - **id**: The id of the path title (used for headers).
            - **method**: The example request method.
            - **content**: The path content.
          - **request**: Same as `request` (documented above).
          - **response**: Same as `request` with the following expansions:
            - **status**: Namespace.
              - **title**: Status title (used for headers).
              - **id**: The id of the status title (used for headers).
              - **code**: The status code.
              - **content**: The status content (message).
  - **extended**: A copy of the `themeOptions` inside `flconfig.json`. All the declared user assets in the theme's config will have the final calculated value here (refer to [User Assets]({{versionRootPrefix}}/themes/creating-a-new-theme/theme-assets#user-assets) for more info.)

> If you need a working example, take a look at the Onyx's `index.hbs` located at `fluorite-root/themes/onyx/index.hbs`.

## Built-in Helpers

The following built-in Handlebars helpers are available to the templates:
  - **isAPI**: Takes a value and returns true if it's equal to `api` (useful for detecting `contents.*.content.*.type`).
  - **isDoc**: Same as `isAPI` but returns true for `doc` type.
  - **isRoot**: Takes a value and returns true if it's an empty string (useful for detecting if `sections.*.path` is root).

## Example

The following Handlebars file is a simple example of how the template API may be used:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    {{#if multiPage}}
      <title>{{title}}{{#if path}} - {{pageTitle}}{{/if}}</title>
    {{else}}
      <title>{{title}}</title>
    {{/if}}
  </head>
  <body>
    {{! Render documentation index}}
    <div class="index">
      {{#each sections}}
        <a href="{{link}}">{{version}}</a>
      {{/each}}
    </div>
    {{! Render the current page's content}}
    {{#each contents}}
      <h1 id="{{id}}">{{title}}</h1>
      {{#each content}}
        {{value}}
      {{/each}}
    {{/each}}
  </body>
</html>
```
